cbt: add page (#9563)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/common/cbt.md

# cbt

> Utility for reading data from Google Cloud's Bigtable.
> More information: <https://cloud.google.com/bigtable/docs/cbt-reference>.

> - List tables in current project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List tables in the current project:
```

Optional fix: `the current` may sound better.

`cbt ls`

> - Return count of rows in table:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Return count of rows in a specific table in the current project:
```

- Optional fix: `a specific` may sound better.
- Optional fix: it is possible to be explicit: as no project mentioned explicitly it is assumed that `the current` project is meant.

> `cbt count {{table_name}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cbt count "{{table_name}}"`
```

Optional fix: `{{table_name}}` placeholder can be quoted if it can contain some special characters to POSIX-like shell.

Author: I double checked the documentation and it doesn't make any notes on character restrictions so might be safer to include these quotes as well

> - Return count of rows in a specific table in the current project:

Reviewer 2: `display` or `print`, `get` or `return` fit better in programming languages
```suggestion
- Print count of rows in a specific table in the current project:
```

Reviewer: For shells it's better to not to use `return` term as there is no similar return functionality like in general purpose languages: POSIX-like shells return just exit codes, other info should be $(command-substituted).

> - Read single row from a table with only 1 (most recent) cell revision per column:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read single row from a specific table with only 1 (most recent) cell revision per column:
```

Optional fix: `a specific` may sound better.

> `cbt lookup {{table_name}} {{row_key}} cells-per-column={{1}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cbt lookup "{{table_name}}" "{{row_key}}" cells-per-column={{1}}`
```

Optional fix: `{{table_name}}` and `{{row_key}}` placeholders can be quoted if they can contain some special characters to POSIX-like shell.

> - Read single row from a specific table with only 1 (most recent) cell revision per column in the current project:

Reviewer 2: `read` and doesn't print something?
```suggestion
- Display a single row from a specific table with only 1 (most recent) cell revision per column in the current project:
```

> - Read single row with only specified column(s) (omit qualifier to return entire family):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read single row with only specific column(s) (omit qualifier to return entire family):
```

Optional fix: `specific` may sound better.

> - Read single row with only specific column(s) (omit qualifier to return entire family) in the current project:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Display a single row with only specific column(s) (omit qualifier to return entire family) in the current project:
```

> `cbt lookup {{table_name}} {{row_key}} columns={{family1:qualifier1}},{{family2:qualifier2}},{{...}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cbt lookup "{{table_name}}" "{{row_key}}" columns="{{family1:qualifier1,family2:qualifier2,...}}"`
```

- Mandatory fix: [placeholder format with ellipsis violation](https://github.com/tldr-pages/tldr/blob/main/contributing-guides/style-guide.md#special-cases): `columns=` doesn't accept two mandatory values and the rest optional ones.
- Optional fix: `{{table_name}}` and `{{row_key}}` and `{{family1:qualifier1,family2:qualifier2,...}}` placeholders can be quoted if they can contain some special characters to POSIX-like shell.

Author: good for future reference, wasn't sure if the commas being required affected where the `{{` went

> - Read rows by regex pattern, return at most 5 rows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read rows by a specific regex pattern, return at most 5 rows:
```

Optional fix: `a specific` may sound better.

> `cbt read {{table_name}} regex="{{row_key_pattern}}" count={{5}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`cbt read "{{table_name}}" regex="{{row_key_pattern}}" count={{5}}`
```

Optional fix: `{{table_name}}` placeholder can be quoted if it can contain some special characters to POSIX-like shell.

> - Read range of rows and print only returned row keys:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read a specific range of rows and print only returned row keys:
```

Optional fix: `a specific` may sound better.

> - Read rows by a specific regex pattern, return at most 5 rows in the current project:

Reviewer 2: What about
```suggestion
- Search up to 5 rows in the current project by a specific regex pattern and print them:
```
